WI #557: Preview - Refinement of FOCUS Columns Normative Requirements (#664)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/pricingcategory.md

Pricing Category describes the pricing model used for a charge at the time of use or purchase. It can be useful for distinguishing between charges incurred at the [*list unit price*](#glossary:list-unit-price) or a reduced price and exposing optimization opportunities, like increasing [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) coverage.

---
The PricingCategory column adheres to the following requirements:

* PricingCategory MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) when the provider supports more than one pricing category across all SKUs.
* If present, the column adheres to the following additional requirements:
  * PricingCategory MUST be of type String.
  * PricingCategory MUST be null if [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Tax".
  * PricingCategory MUST NOT be null if ChargeCategory is "Usage" or "Purchase" and [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is not "Correction".
  * PricingCategory MAY be null in all other cases.

>   * If PricingCategory is not null, the following applies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If PricingCategory is not null, the column adheres to the following additional requirements:
```

Author: suggested change applied across the board
